First copy re-write (#634)
appsignal/appsignal-docs: source/posts/guides/configuration.mdx

  push_api_key: "<YOUR PUSH API KEY>"
  # Other AppSignal config...

development: # Development environment
  <<: *defaults
  log_level: "debug" # This enables debug mode for only the development environment

>   # Other AppSignal config...

Author: good idea!

This configuration method is compatible with Ruby, Elixir, and Node.js applications.

Before moving on to the following example of setting environment variables via a shell, let's explain how environment variables work concerning shells and processes.

Environment variables can belong to a process such as a shell or your application. The command `export FOO=BAR`, for example, would set your shell's `FOO` environment variable to equal `BAR`. Environment variables are inherited between processes, so when that shell starts a new process, that process will also have any of the shell's environment variables.

When you launch a process in the shell (i.e., npm start) you can also provide more environment variables for only that process by assigning the variables like so: `FOO=BAR npm start`

> Processes don't access environment variables via files. You can, however, store variables in a file as commands that can be accessed and executed by a process when it starts. `~/.bash_profile` is great example of this. The `~/.bash_profile` file is read each time a shell is started. All commands in the file are executed and made available to that shell when read. In the example `~/.bash_profile` file below, we define AppSignal's push_api_key and log_level so that when a new shell is started the commands are executed and the correct environment variables are accessible to your application, allowing it to communicate with AppSignal.

Reviewer: Note that `bash` is no longer the default shell in some OSes! For example, macOS switched to `zsh` some versions ago, and `~/.bash_profile` is not read by default. The suggested changes make it more neutral to the specific shell. (Conveniently, the syntax doesn't change, so the example file works for both)

```suggestion
For convenience, you may want to configure your shell to set certain environment variables when it starts, so that any processes started from that shell inherits those environment variables. If you're using the `bash` shell, which is the default in most Linux distributions, the commands in the `.bash_profile` file in your home directory are executed when the shell is started. If using `zsh`, which is the default in macOS, the `.zshenv` file would be used instead.

In the example file below, we export the environment variables that configure AppSignal's push API key and log level, so that when a new shell is started, the correct environment variables are accessible to your application, allowing it to communicate with AppSignal.
```

> Config options set via environment variables apply to all application environments, however some environment variables are language specific. For example the variable `instrument_sequel` only exists in the Ruby integration, because Sequel is a Ruby gem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Config options set via environment variables apply to all application environments, however some config options are language specific. For example, the config option `instrument_sequel` only exists in the Ruby integration, because Sequel is a Ruby gem.
```

(I think it's clear as-is, but to make sure it's understood, we could add at the end "and therefore setting the `APPSIGNAL_INSTRUMENT_SEQUEL` environment variable has no effect for other integrations")

// Place your app code below this
```

And that's it - you're ready to roll! Follow these simple steps for all future config option modifications.

####^js Read More

- [Front-end JavaScript Integration Configuration](/front-end/configuration/)

## System Environment Variable Configuration

<Notice variant="warning">
  ⚠️ This configuration method is not available for Front-end JavaScript.
</Notice>

System environment variables, or "environment variables" for short, are variables that are accessible by all applications started by a parent process. Instead of using a [configuration file][file] for configuration, it's possible to configure AppSignal using only these environment variables. It is also possible to store config keys that contain sensitive data, such as the Push API key in an environment variable, and use [config files][file] for the rest of the config.

This configuration method is compatible with Ruby, Elixir, and Node.js applications.

> In the example below, we've configured two environment variables using the environment variables key format. After (re)starting the application process in a shell where these environment variables are stored, AppSignal will use the values of these environment variables as its config.

Author: I will come back to this once I've addressed all minor feedback, it might be that we let this slide for now, and come back to it in a dedicated PR.

> In the example below, we've configured two environment variables using the environment variables key format. After (re)starting the application process in a shell where these environment variables are stored, AppSignal will use the values of these environment variables as its config.

Author: See if my new copy is a step in the right direction for this

> Config options set via environment variables apply to all application environments.

Author: Also re-worded this a little

```sh
# Bash shell example
export APPSIGNAL_PUSH_API_KEY=<YOUR PUSH API KEY>
export APPSIGNAL_LOG_LEVEL=debug # Sets log_level to debug for all environments.
```

There are several possible locations for files with environment variables configuration. Please choose the best option that suits your application, and be sure to reload your terminal shell after making any changes to ensure it has access to your updated variables.

- `~/.profile` or `~/.bash_profile` - User specific settings. Use this location to configure environment variables per user.

> - `/etc/profile` - System-wide settings. If multiple users or apps use the same host machine, do not use this location.

Author: @unflxw - can you take a look at the new copy I've put in to try and explain this better?

Platform As A Service (PaaS) hosting providers like Heroku, do not provide a system for directly configuring environment variables in the shell. You can instead use their web interface or CLI to configure these environment variables.

<Notice>

>  💡 When using system environment variable based configuration, make sure to use the "System environment key" value from the config options table as the config key. This key is always capitalized and uses underscores between words, like this: `EXAMPLE_OF_A_CONFIG_KEY`

Author: 😱

>  💡 When using system environment variable based configuration, make sure to use the "System environment key" value from the config options table as the config key. This key is always capitalized and uses underscores between words, like this: `EXAMPLE_OF_A_CONFIG_KEY`

Author: I don't believe in such a thing as too silly, I'm going to put some creaming snake case in here, because only AppSignal would offer such education

</Notice>

> ## Deploy and Restart

Author: "Completing The Configuration" ? 🤔
